---
title: "It Cannot Be Right If It Was Written by AI: On Lawyers’ Preferences of Documents Perceived as Authored by an LLM vs a Human"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-12-01-it-cannot-be-right
excerpt: 'This study examines whether the perception of legal documents’ by lawyers and law students varies based on their assumed origin (human-crafted vs AI-generated).'
date: 2024-12-01
venue: 'Artificial Intelligence and Law'
slidesurl: # not available
paperurl: 'https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10506-024-09422-w'
citation: 'Harasta, Jakub, Tereza Novotná, and Jaromir Savelka. "It cannot be right if it was written by AI: On lawyers’ preferences of documents perceived as authored by an LLM vs a human." <i>Artificial Intelligence and Law</i> (2024): 1-38.'
---

Large Language Models (LLMs) enable a future in which certain types of legal documents may be generated automatically. This has a great potential to streamline legal processes, lower the cost of legal services, and dramatically increase access to justice. While many researchers focus on proposing and evaluating LLM-based applications supporting tasks in the legal domain, there is a notable lack of investigations into how legal professionals perceive content if they believe an LLM has generated it. Yet, this is a critical point as over-reliance or unfounded scepticism may influence whether such documents bring about appropriate legal consequences. This study is the necessary analysis of the ongoing transition towards mature generative AI systems. Specifically, we examined whether the perception of legal documents’ by lawyers and law students (n = 75) varies based on their assumed origin (human-crafted vs AI-generated). The participants evaluated the documents, focusing on their correctness and language quality. Our analysis revealed a clear preference for documents perceived as crafted by a human over those believed to be generated by AI. At the same time, most participants expect the future in which documents will be generated automatically. These findings could be leveraged by legal practitioners, policymakers, and legislators to implement and adopt legal document generation technology responsibly and to fuel the necessary discussions on how legal processes should be updated to reflect recent technological developments.